[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
JP Thor the general herder of cats at
thorchain I'm really excited for this
conversation how you doing today JP good
Dylan thanks for having me I'm in
Melbourne and uh just sted in this
morning and to catch you up with
everything yeah this is uh this is your
morning coffee for you so um I kind of
want to like just jump into the deep end
um I've been a thorchain user for three
years now three and a half years since
you guys were still on test net on be
Swap and to use thorchain back then you
kind of had to be like crypto native you
had to understand how Ledger wallets
work how different blockchain networks
work and I think something that was
really cool that recently happened is I
swapped Bitcoin for ethereum using
thorchain and the experience was almost
as comparable to that of a custodial
exchange so I think just like in general
our our crypto assets and blockchain
networks at the point where we can bring
on quote unquote mainstream users or do
we still have like a little ways to go
before we can achieve mainstream
adoption it's pretty close most of the
users are happy to jump into uh
selfquest audio wallets like trust W or
Ledger or any of the Ws available to
them and forchain has made a lot of
Headway into integrating directly into
those wallets for now it's just swaps so
if you want to swap from Bitcoin to e
then most wallets will give you swapping
options powered by thorchain and that's
actually where thorchain gets a lot of
its uh revenue from it's just powering
those swaps as it the state is uh in
terms of competition there's not much in
the way of competition FL chain in
providing those L1 swap brouts so it
it's got a pretty good Monopoly on the
whole industry right now but your
specific question on user experience uh
that is still yet to come I think
there's a lot of room to prove on the
suff St experience so right now we all
all the wallets in the world are single
signatures because multi seek is too
difficult and I've got a separate
project to bring threshold signatures to
your everyday wallets and the idea is
that you can fire up a uh like
multiactor uh you log into bank out with
two Factor uh well you should be up sent
a crypto transaction with a two- Factor
authentication um at the protocol level
so that's what I'm building there uh but
your final question is is are the wall
the world ready to bring on hundreds of
millions of users and give them a an
amazing using experience very close very
close I would say probably one more
cycle away and we we'll be able to
achieve that yeah um cool so I kind of
want to take like just a quick little
step back because if you go online
there's there's a lot of like your
thoughts on the general crypto space why
you're so passionate to build what
you're building with ftis and the riera
alliance and thorchain and Wei we swap
and all these kind of projects you have
a hand in but you kind of came into
blockchain and crypto in a unique way uh
similar to my path I did not study
computer science I wasn't doing computer
stuff before I entered the crypto space
in 2018 so you have kind of an
interesting background in that you
studied um basically Aerospace Sciences
in college and then did a little bit of
time uh in the Air Force for the Royal
Australian Air Force so um what was kind
of like the first time you heard about
crypto blockchain Bitcoin whatever and
did it click right away and if it didn't
what was kind of like the aha moment for
you sure yeah so I started atic insuring
I was in the Air Force for 12 years not
a littleit and I was flying Fighters and
bombers um as a pilot and in 2013 August
2013 I got dragged Along by my buddy to
a tech startup pitch night and someone
was pitching a Bitcoin exchange and and
that was the first time I've heard of
Bitcoin and I'm thought to myself what
on Earth is this I went home and Googled
it and I found a white paper read the
white paper immediately and I thought
this is this is going to change the
world um well at at that time I was like
all this is quite interesting Bitcoin
was at 150 bucks us at the time and then
it started now that I was watching it
started going up and I thought hang on
it what is what is this thing so I keep
going back to it and going Bitcoin
Bitcoin Ben is like a clicked no this is
going to change the world it's new
Financial system uh it's it's it's
basically first principles thinking and
I'm a big fan of first principles
thinking it's like if you were to design
money then you would produce Bitcoin
something like it um so I I literally
sent an email to all my family and
friends going giving them detailed step
bystep instructions on how to set up
Bitcoin wallet how to buy Bitcoin why
it's going to change the world and my
price PR production in 2013 was become
was going to hit a million Buck by the
decade 10 years so 2023 um it I'm a
factor 10 out I'm slice too optimistic
um but I do think it's going to hit a
million bucks in by the end of 2030 it's
very yeah on slot but that's
what did the fomo kind of like expedite
your your process into wanting to get
into Bitcoin yeah I mean back in those
days it was very hard to get Bitcoin uh
you have to do you have to buy P2P uh
you have to do these dodgy transactions
and you know you're like am I going to
get scammed you had to set up paper
wallets uh there was no wallets in the
iOS up store um and a bunch of other
things like it just it was all very
difficult and you had to download like
The the bitcoin. exe uh Windows laptop
um the the wallets and the mining
software and blah blah s immediately I
thought hey why can't build a Bitcoin
wallet in the App Store so I went
through the whole process of I was
learning how to ship iOS and iPad apps
at the same time trying to put Bitcoin
in in app but uh the app stores were
Banning and kicking them off Apple up
store were like blanket Bann all Bitcoin
apps was wild and that wasn't relaxed
like two years later um so it was very
difficult back in the day and you had to
like had to have this really um yeah you
had to really want to do it and it all
improved over the years but yeah yeah
and now we're at the place where the
Bitcoin white paper is natively
installed into every mac o
someone in apple must have charged in h
that surely like surely what I'm
thinking it was um probably like a rogue
employee who just kind of wanted it to
see it in there this was also during the
time of uh Craig R's massive amounts of
lawsuits and he was libeling anyone who
basically stored or hosted the Bitcoin
white paper so it was kind of like a
giant middle finger for whatever
employee did that um and put them into
the root files of of OS but it's kind of
incredible to see from 2013 the
experience you're talking about where
it's hard to get a wallet you had to
create your own paper wallet you had to
understand from kind of like a terminal
level how to interact with and store
Bitcoin and now today we have ETFs in
the US ETFs across the the world um
beautiful kind of like L1 to L1 native
swapping features like thorchain so it's
it's really nice to kind of see how far
we've come uh but before we we delve
further um I do kind of you spent a
little over a decade flying jets what's
what's kind of like your craziest flight
experience that you had while you were
in in the air force uh there some pretty
wild stuff I remember flying a bomber
around Chinese warships in the the South
China Sea and one of them painted us
with Fire Control radar and we're like
12 miles around it like sneaking around
it and sudden to get lit up by Fire
Control radar and um that was wild all
being chased by South Korean f-16s out
of the country
um no I think some pretty pretty cool
some scenarios are um this one time I
was I was flying this training ship and
this unknown vfi aircraft that entered
military aost and the controller jumps
on and says hey can you do it I was just
a trainer at the time can you can you do
an intercept and do a visual
identification of this aircraft so I was
like yeah right whatever so I rolled in
and I was you know there's a jet to do
like 400 450 knots and this little
aircraft like 100 knots so I remember
like I'm flying past it at four times
speed and try to Circle and slow right
down but I think the jet at the time
wouldn't go below 150 knots um so I to
like Drop flaps drop gear slide right
down just to just to get a visual idea
of it's like a little sester flying in
space anyway and then I was running out
of fuel so have to like C up and and get
harv you
go um yeah that's awesome so I I think
it's it's really interesting kind of
your background because there's you
still have this uh passion for flight um
and so like just in doing cursory
research I I got to learn a little bit
about your helicopter collection um and
that you own like the first Aston Martin
Edition um
ac130 and that you you had a really cool
story with picking up the helicopter and
flying it from from England uh back to
where you live in Australia so I was
wondering if you could talk a little bit
about what that experience was like and
also maybe uh give us some beta on or
some Alpha on your plans for a certain
Global trip popping up in 2026 maybe
yeah so I picked out the helicopter in
England and it's a 7 seat th000
horsepower U AC 13 it's an amazing
aircraft um very safe very reliable and
picked up in England and it was going to
get shipped on the back of the boat I
told air now I come pick it up so for
grading England France uh France Italy
Greece Egypt flew around the pyramids uh
then into like over Saudi Arabia Oman
Pakistan India Bangladesh got locked up
in Miami for 24 hours there a pent
problems escaped into La Thailand
Malaysia and then down into Australia
since then I've taken it to New Zealand
and back and up to Tokyo Flor M Fugi and
back Australia so definitely an amazing
machine to see the world because rather
at 30,000 ft and you only have see five
attendance and security you're at like
thousand ft and you literally see
everything you see like the villages in
The Villages you can see the the
glaciers the volcanoes the animals
everything they can really explore the
world for sure it's it's wild I mean and
the big trip is to I'm going to fly
around the world by the poles uh so
start in Australia uh New Zealand to
Antartica so cross a thousand miles of
ocean by two hops on the barge into the
South Pole up and then back out again up
to the Drake Passage which is the the
dangerous most dangerous water crossing
the world it's the bottom of Chile and
the north part of uh Antarctica there
actually only 4 miles so it's very
doable but it's just wild I know someone
have to ditch in the Dr passage in a
helicopter yeah hope that doesn't happen
to us we'll be taking two machines one
machine filming the other and uh
basically just create a whole bunch of
content and put it out there people see
up to America up into uh Greenland North
Pole back over the top and then FL back
to Australia again B
man is this all like for sure happening
yeah
hold in brother let's get it done why
why wouldn't that do us I don't know man
I mean like that that's also another
thing I I want to ask like you you
clearly like have the station in life
where you can just like fly around the
world in your helicopters you might have
a Netflix deal I don't know maybe you
will maybe you won't um but like what
keeps you what keeps you motivated to
like keep your head down and keep
grinding and and working on on these
projects you're working on because you
could clearly be off ADV venturing
living like a whole life that people
dream of but you also still choose to
kind of grind away and build out these
system so like what's this intrinsic
drive to to keep working on this stuff
because it's not finished yet actually I
was talking to a wife our FL about it um
it's never finished so it's it's never
the destination it's always the journey
it's always what you want to complete
and my understanding of myself my
purpose is to move the needle on human
so contribute to its intelligence in the
form of uh its memes and gen and it
sounds very simple but actually it is uh
we every biological machine's purpose is
to one survive and when you good
finished surviving uh then you should
propagate useful information useful
information contained genetically so
every evolution of a of an organism the
the children are always more intelligent
than parents I mean that's
probabilistically certain that's been
billion years that's how we're here
right we're evolve from the single cell
organism all the way up to this very
capable bound biological machine called
human and also uh we don't just spread
information through genes you know since
10 10 20,000 years ago we've developed
Advanced ways of communicating and
storing information and that's only
accelerated so we can talk and I can
tell you useful information so you don't
need to die to pass that useful
information on to your children you
could actually I can just tell you right
and that's that's theic transfer of
information and like use of information
is everything from like eal mc² to memes
about art religion culture uh everything
right if it's useful and it helps uh
machines coordinate gain economies of
scale uh multiply resources uh and
defeat the universe's adversity then
it'll be passed on every meme has a
halfway and memes just don't die out
they they have a universal half life and
you have these high velocity memes which
like could be a Mr Beast video or t
Swift song and then you got these highly
potent memes like E mc squ which is well
fundamentally you know we will keep that
m round for for centuries until we
upgrade it with with uh more Precision
uh from observing the universe CU
nothing's real nothing's true Everything
can only get upgraded with more and more
understanding of our universe and so
that's our purpose actually is just to
is to observe the universe learn
glean useful information and tell
everyone about it and so getting back to
why I do what I do in in this industry I
can have a measured impact through
seeing thought chain out thought chain
is not yet complete it's it's probably
like only halfway there to where where
it should be it only just got useful
swaps a year ago through streaming swaps
and it only has just started to get that
out to the industry with all wall inter
verions it still has at least another
four years of building to get to where
it should be which is uh you know to
rival Cen exchanges right which is what
I start out 8 years ago to build and
like I'm not happy with self self-
custodial wats like single signatures
are dangerous you can easily lose your
money to get keys Etc and based on my
perspective multiactor is much more
suitable for solving self- custody and
so we should spread these memes bter
seek is a meme thought change is a meme
right uh we but it's useful information
at the market M need some pass on so
that's what drives me to do if if I were
to just like exit St left and well I did
that I mean I took took 12 months off
kind of to fly the helicopters around
the world and and enjoy that is boring
because you don't really do anything
right you don't really contribute to
humility and no one's going to remember
you um and I mean may you don't want to
be remembered but my purpose is and I
fairly believe this is to it's not about
me being remembered it's about the memes
being propagated right and they're gen
so I have a daughter and I only tent on
spreading memes that are useful like
vult to se chain so that's what driv me
cool um so you're Building Product but
you also before we we delve into the
products and I've got tons of questions
and can't wait to dig further uh but you
also have a fund uh 218 Capital so I'm
just curious um like you raised five
months ago I believe and so just from a
perspective of a builder versus like a
fund manager what are kind of um like
what are the feelings of you
contributing and giving back that you
feel that are differentiated between
owning and running a fund versus
building out products and and
propagating these memes of those
products actually it was when I set out
in the multis zigs for the fun uh which
I started Jing this year that I realized
how bad multi was and single Sig is so
that's when I I um dragged you my cko
from thorchain and we were okay let's
build V T CH TSS engine ret wall and way
we go um I mean the fun the fund is just
the very passive thing you know you
raise a bunch of money you have a
information memorandum and you execute
the fund um and it's a very it's not an
active fund it's a very passive fund as
the real allocation strategy but the
fund it's just one of the many things
that I do um because I've got a con
scale now I can I can do quite a bit uh
because there's lots of overlap you know
I'm not trying to build rockets and run
Twitter I don't know how you do it but
like I mean the thought ecosystem
management is it's going to be the same
way I'm doing the re EOS which is the
same way and I'm like the product owners
Vol SE so I just jump in once you get an
amazing team and you're like scaling
setting up every team is intense to
start like you have to like set the
culture set the standards get the right
people in um set up all the processes
where the information gets transfer
people get paid blah blah blah do very
intense the first few weeks you drag and
re on in and then you immediately
appoint a trusty number two that's
that's how I do it I find a trusty
number two and I charge them um
maintain the culture the standards the
processes blah blah blah and I rely on
them and they become my my main point of
Contex but they also directly um ensure
that the product is heading in the right
direction and so every day I just you
know I've got multiple teams doing
multiple things but I just jump in read
all the daily updates make sure it's
heading the right direction check in
with the project manager and you know
once a month everyone gets paid and all
I got to do is just project the vision
it's actually quite easy and it so kind
scale like once you have a system that
works you just keep repeating it and I
like I feel like my bandwidth is pretty
max out right now but um I feel like
I've got it I've got it well well sorted
and I'm not taking on any more after
spun out so I if you look at all the
project it's thorchain running that uh
the decent liquidity protocol make you
know it's handed over but make sure it's
heading in the right direction and all
the ecosystems talking around but that's
going super great and then there's now
the app player which is rira um bringing
those teams in that's going to be that's
going to take a lot of my time and
effort uh because you know we got a big
migration happen lots of different
people uh that are doing things um and
so that's going to take some time to get
going and but that's happening um and
then on top of that we've you know I've
got a various projects in the wallet
space um and like amm space I'm I'm so
passionate about amm you know I've been
building uh liquidity is autom Market
whatever I don't like the word liquidity
I've been building liquidity since 18 so
that's one thing I'm very passionate on
and I've launched quite a few different
liquidity Protocols of the years I'm
about to launch two more um just to
experiment and and see but I'm
passionate about liquidity because I
think liquidity is uh it's like it
solves everything like a lot of if an
asset is liquid and discoverable it's
it's not you know people are paid to put
the liquidity on chain on market and if
money is on Market it can it's available
right can be it's it's not volatile it's
liquid you can easily enter and exit and
IL liquidity is is the cause of a lot of
problems in this
industry and so it CS all these whip
soring effects around at pricing and um
people come bipolar on the price and you
know so like liquidity I'm very
passionate on and building new liquidity
perimeters is what I you know con try to
do so i' got two two more projects down
that range to like experiment with but
um yeah it's all in the same the same
sphere I mean being an American right
now uh and getting locked out of
exchanges and protocols and airdrops
like we are feeling the choke hold of
lack of access to liquidity so any
decentralized liquidity networks we can
tap into or or have access to as anyone
in the world should regardless of
nationality it's just kind of funny
being from a first world nation and
feeling like I'm on par with like a
North Korea or and Iran according to my
government um and being choked out from
from having access to liquidity so you
kind of like touched on my next point
which was going to ask how you deal with
bandwidth so we'll pivot to um kind of a
question that I think anyone who's
looked at Thor chain can Gro internally
and anyone who's been following the
project for years but someone who's
hearing about it for the first time
today won't necessarily kind of
understand that this was a massive
undertaking the underlying technology
that is stor chain took years to get to
and on its face it sounds super simple
swapping L1 assets from L1 chain to L1
chain but it took forever to get here so
why was it such a big problem to kind of
tackle and how did you and your team
kind of like break this down and and get
to this point we're at today even though
you feel like we're only 50% there yeah
I mean you like you said sounds so easy
but why is so hard well we started in
2018 uh the first attempt failed it was
built around multisig and it was just
the wrong team doing the wrong text
deack so I had to like put the project
on pause and then 6 months later I
discovered the threshold signature paper
um and I thought hey this is going to
solve a lot of difficulties in thres
signatures kick started again and uh we
were the first major client or consumer
of of public special signatures in fact
I think th chain is is has to be the
largest adversarial NPC Network in the
world and we took a lot of time to like
graph this NPC protocol to a state
machine and state machine is like cos
blockchain I replicated the state
machine and there was just so many
problems and as you know was single
chain car snap so we we first rolled it
out to a single chain stopping on that
chain and then we shut that chain down
and moved to multichain and multichain
had Bitcoin e D&B and a bunch of other
chains but all the nuances to do with
like Bitcoin and utxos and child P far
and gas attacks and dust thresholds and
we have to like you can't like put that
on a whiteboard and say but okay we're
going to build an L1 swappy Network
you're going to do how to solve XY Z
like there's no book for that there's no
like banel so we had to just roll out
there and see what would break and so
that's why we called it multi-chain car
net I mean the way that the protocol
attaches to even ethereum uh Bitcoin cos
it's all different it's but we try to
build in a way that's very agnostic um
so there's a lot of like abstraction and
and wrapping your hands around all the
gas and stuff so but yes took a long
time uh to get right but we the approach
was always let's just get out there and
see what we'll break and take some risk
right so we we weren't afraid to take
risk um my team must had so much anxiety
over the years because pulling them
through that but um we we were out there
we took risk um we we just solved all
the problems as they came up and that
was the correct approach I mean it's the
the world largest decentralized
liquidity protocol um you can it works
you can sort Bitcoin to e and
uh like it took our approach to do that
if we hadn't done it though if we hadn't
keeped up this project oh man like ouch
because like where would be we be today
without us um there's no convincing
alternative because the the two other
Pudo uh in the sphere like chain flip
and Maya were were inspired and like
kicked off by us as well like to to push
and push those teams to like fork and
and and grow and we invest in them as
well so like the whole industry is like
spawned through our original efforts but
if if we hadn't done it like would be
pretty disappointing like what
alternatives I mean I hope someone would
have come up and builted um I mean th is
open source like you can claim it today
if you think th is a good thing like
just go and for and build an alternative
like something would ever happened to th
chain um because it's like you know I
mean something can happen to bitcoin
there's always a non-zero chance
something can happen then we want
Alternatives like I truly believe we
just into centi liquidity of any flavor
right doesn't have to be th um so yeah
so that's like but it's hard but we got
done yeah I mean at at its core like
basically thorchain provides the ability
for the Rune token to interact with
another L1 Network and then if you're
swapping ethereum for Bitcoin you're
basically just trading ethereum for Rune
and then rune for Bitcoin and the beauty
is the magic that works behind the
scenes um for thorchain to kind of like
do that uh I remember when I first
started playing with the the multichain
chaos net um ethereum fees were high and
Bitcoin fees were high because this was
2021 and very recently I was performing
eth Bitcoin swaps and the fees were
within within like a small less than 10%
uh difference were comparable to
centralized exchanges and what was
really cool was I was swapping from my
ethereum wallet to my Bitcoin wallet and
so you mentioned like where would we be
without this yes this is how it works so
you go two pulls you got Bitcoin Rune
and then Rune eth you put a little bit
of Bitcoin in to there and then the Rune
goes from there into there and then e
pops out there all that happen is
Bitcoin gets out the Bitcoin po little
Rune moves over to the E Co and then e
goes out um so the user sees Bitcoin in
eth out and the reason why it's all run
pad is because the system has to sense
the TV on the network in order to ensure
that the nodes are always bonding more
so it secures the Bitcoin underneath
with the Rune Bond and nobody can steal
the Bitcoin underneath because they are
bonding more in Rune than they would
ever get back in Bitcoin 8 so that's how
it works and that like the incentive pen
we came up with in 2019 um it works um
out a few tweaks of the years um but no
really kind of copied that and although
they should and um yeah I mean security
liquidity and uh and all and all the
incentive structures so like paying fees
to liquidity providers paying fees to
the nodes and stuff like that sorry yeah
I and I think where the the the
Simplicity of what door chain offers
where it gets lost on people is like
someone who is an L2 Maxi for I don't
want to say any l2s but they're just
like we can just use Bridges and we can
just bridge between different assets but
they don't realize that if that bridge
goes down then you've lost your access
to moving between networks so that's
kind of what the beauty of thorchain is
is it's L1 to L1 swaps and something
that's really kind of amazing about Thor
Chain's operations is how Rune is used
to provide Economic Security which
secures these LPS and the nodes operate
so could you just kind of like eli5 for
someone who's never dug into thorchain
how Rune is used to provide Economic
Security which actually secures the
whole door chain ecosystem yeah so if
there's $100 million worth of bitcoin
and eth in the network then the system
will ensure that there's $200 million of
security um as a minimum to protect that
Pi e and there's a incentive pension
that as either paying liquidity
providers or paying nodes and it's it
splits between the two in order to
Target that 2 to one right and if it's
less than 2 to1 then the nodes get paid
more if it's more than two to1 then the
nodes get paid less and so the system's
always just decided that it wants to uh
yeah maximizes liquidity and Max return
to liquidity providers uh with with a
minimum set of security and you know
it's a very simple simple concept but it
ensures that no node or collection nodes
can steal funds so other than um
ensuring Economic Security what what
role does run have in the in the ecos in
the broader th chain ecosystem I know
that like Economic Security and and
providing a secondary asset is great
that's it it's it's a liquidity and
security asset that's all this yeah it's
not design to be money it's not design
to be held um you should irly um put in
the network to use in the network yet
and for anyone who's never kind of like
looked at a calculator you can kind of
derive what you think the price of run
might be based off of the assets that
are used in the LPS so like the price of
Bitcoin and ethereum and Avalanche and
adom and Doge and all these other coins
they as they rise and fall they also
impact the price of Rune so it's really
fun to kind of like play around with
Rune price calculators to kind of
Envision what you think the price of
Rune will be based off of other assets
um so it's kind of the Simplicity that
makes Rune like kind of like a hardcore
asset yeah it's it's like be like an ETF
asset because it's it's coupled to the
value of the assets in it so uh yeah it
like if you I mean at the moment it
needs it's it's it's it should be a lot
more liquid than it currently is um but
then it basically is an ETF asset it
senses the prices of all the Assets in
the pools and it all it's coupled um and
like we just roll out Rune pool so r p
is idea that you can just add run into
this single-sided
aspect and it um basically uh sits on
the AR side of all the contributions to
be underneath and it's yeah it's allow
it gives you like Network wide sper with
a single pool and so you mentioned that
uh Thor Chain's codebase is open source
and out of this has has spur chain flip
and Maya so now we have other kind of uh
L1 to L1 swapping protocols that are
launching this increases the resiliency
of the codebase by allowing these other
teams to maybe onboard uh blockchains
that have less traffic and volume than
maybe thorchain is looking at and a lot
of these teams are empowered and enable
wallet providers uh to integrate them
via swap kit so can you share a little
bit about what swap kit is and how what
it's like General Vision is and towards
into on boarding custodial wallet
providers and really making it easier
for third parties to integrate thorchain
Maya Jane flip what have you into the
backend processes yeah so swap kit uh
was spun out of Thor swap which was spun
out of B swap which was I wrote first
version of B swap back in 2019 So Soft
is is an aggre of toolkit to allow
wallets to easy plug into cross
liquidity with a very simple quoting
interface uh API and uh it basically
wraps all the networks but it not just
it doesn't just wrap thorat it wraps
mayair and chain flip and it tries to
give the user a a selection of quotes
and routes with different times and uh
prices available on each route so the
user can choose in this way there kind
of like this is good for th chain
actually because because swap kit
presents his selection of routes for the
user then you can't like it it's good
for the protocols as good thought chain
and it makes the centi liquidity more
resilient it's not dependent on one just
one protocol because these protocols
have a lot going on there's a lot of
code there and the anything happen to
any protocol any time like like there's
always a long Tower risk right and this
ensures that the user has swaps
available to them which is important and
and also like these these Protocols are
like jurisdictionally independent like I
mean so I mean thought chain is not
really based on any job in the world it
kind of was SP up in Australia but it's
definitely like spread out I mean
there's no owner or thought chain except
for the nodes um like I didn't I don't
know how you would cease and toist
thought like you can't cease to toist th
CH because there this like no to letter
to there's no there's no company right
it's what Heth right I mean change for
the space uh Germany I don't know where
mayor protocols but I think if somewhere
in South America it doesn't matter at
the end because it's all a Global
Network of nodes that service these
networks um like truly they truly are
decentralizes while when I think about
sometime like man like how would you
shut down th chain um I mean yeah like
there's no there's no leverage anywhere
like there's uh I mean there's a
treasury that pays the ecosystem but now
with ad18 and whatnot there's more ways
that the protocol can fund itself to its
own to own initiative um and like you
would like send all the nodes a letter
um but all the nodes are like
distributed over what do the nodes do
they just rock up and run software and
leave they don't ever hold funds um
they're not independently processing
transactions so it is it truly is a
decentralized network with its own life
of its own now and it's sustainable it
makes money enough money to to pay for
itself so yeah one of one of the
favorite attacks for like decentralized
networks by politicians here in the US
is to highlight
how criminal activity is done on top of
these networks let alone the fact that
they willingly ignore how Banks
facilitate criminal activity that's a
whole other topic for another
conversation but within the past month
or so and we're recording this uh in in
the the first third of September uh I
believe at some point in August there
was kind of like a hit piece that came
out that said x amount of Nefarious
activity is being uh facilitated on
thorchain and you know this is a free
market it's open source anyone has has
Fair access to it are there ways in
which thorchain can limit what sort of
endpoints can access the network or use
it or is it just kind of like completely
out there and in the wild and it's on
like the frontend interfaces to kind of
facilitate these uh censorship
principles um I wouldn't I mean okay
sorry front ends are charge fees to
provide services and charge fees so they
should have the um ability to choose who
to do business with right so if I have a
service and a bunch of people Rock up I
don't have to service everyone right so
the fonts have the prerogative to choose
who to do business with right they're
essentialized they have a website I have
an app store um they don't need to that
you don't need to force some zo business
with anyone um thought chain is a
protocol that is not able to choose
because there is no way that you can
decide a stand of like okay this address
must look like this and the protocol
will accept it right because there's no
onchain subjectivity when it comes to
addresses and transactions right the the
subjectivity is created on these
offchain databases and so you
centralized databases as well so how do
you hook a centralized database into a
decentralized network okay uh so you
have to you I mean thought CH is run by
106 nodes so you going to give API keys
to 106 nodes or are you going to like
how are you how are you going to get
that subjectivity to a decentralized
network it's it actually like the whole
thing just Falls over because and also
like th changes the out every three days
so not only well let's say you're able
to get 106 nodes to get an API key to
CER your centi database which has a
subjective opinion on address
transactions right and then you get
those 106 noes to subscribe to that
service and rate rate these transactions
then 3 Days Later 4K kicked out the five
get pulled in and so every three days
you have to go find these new nodes and
get them to subscribe to database so
it's just not happening right and
there's no leverage like I mean Thor
chains aren't hosted on websites on App
Stores or anything like the nodes so you
have to continue leverage like you can
run a Thor on a completely bare metal
server just connect to the internet
right so you had to you end up censoring
the entire internet to chase down these
Thor noes so it truly is decentralized
platform that just keeps on sharing it's
built on that for a reason uh so don't
see how can happen at the Bas layer
unless uh and I thought longer like
thought long and hard about the
potential pathway of Leverage there but
for centralized apps and services that
have there's leverage everywhere um app
store has leverage Google Play store has
leverage on you even hosting website
there various ways that people can
leverage you um yes just because you're
sit behind a URL I mean uh you know so
that's so censorship and address
screening will happen at the interface
layer where there is leverage um and
because and fundamentally so businesses
can choose who to do business with but
the protocol will be uh should be
forever free of address screening yeah
cool so thorchain adds Thor Chain's
codebase adds resiliency with chain flip
and Maya and whatever other protocol
providers come after and and build on
top of Thor Chain's code base um swap
kit builds the ability the resiliency of
these protocols to be added to uh self-
custodi wallets uh by integrating these
these API um options for wallet
providers and so we see at a protocol
level and at kind of like a wallet
provider level the resiliency of like
the thorchain codebase and the ability
to tap into these Thor chain enabled or
or built upon networks when I was at
rare Evo a few weeks ago in Vegas I also
got to ride in in the thorchain Cyber
truck um I got to meet uh a DEX that's
building on top of uh these protocols as
well um Eldorado de shout out to that
team so what now does it look like at
the application layer and and hopefully
we can use this to kind of go into the
work that you're doing with rira at the
application layer of the decks is what
does Thor chains kind of investing into
or building relationships with and I'm
wearing my shape shift sweater too so
like maybe you can expand upon the
relationships with eldorados and the
shape chips and the dexes that you guys
collaborate with what do those
relationships look like how do you go
about building and expanding upon them
and maybe even onboarding new dexes to
kind of integrate these protocols into
the backend and help make thorchain and
Thor Chain's codebase more resilient by
having more dexes use it so the
incentives already there since 2019 we
built the Fate fees so or 2020 actually
FIA fees allow an interface to get their
own fees so trust makes significant
money per month I think last time
checked make like a million bucks a
month on integrating an affiliate fees
so any large wallet or service provider
should wrap swap kit and charge these
affiliate fees and immediately be self-
sustaining like I know a bunch of
wallets now that now make enough money
to just pay for themselves and their
operations from just thought chain
affiliate Fe right so the incentives are
there eventually because the incentives
are correct um so not only do these
wallets need door chain for the swapping
features for the users but they also
want blockchain because they'll get paid
a lot of money to do it from their own
their own fees so uh yeah I mean it's
going to happen like from my perspective
uh these protocols have one th has won
right swap kit has won um based on the
inbound that's coming and the agreements
that are in progress right now to
deliver on um for the Integrations and
once these WS Plum into these networks I
don't think they're they're not going to
unplumbed so yeah it's it's it's it's
coming like in the next that's why I'm
very excited because just as this point
where you know like you're saying at
start of the call like you could be off
exit sa enjoying life well that's quite
boring actually or from my point of view
this is just the moment that thought
like goes for this crazy run and so why
wouldn't I be at the uh in the arena
helping it being part of it enjoying it
um sing it making sure it achieves its
newm um for sure uh because so there's a
lot of change coming uh the app layer
protocols interfaces faulty SE there's a
lot of change coming and I I could be
part of that so sorry why why would I
not be in the arena so that's why I
think that's one of the things that has
always attracted me to thorchain and
like why it was so easy to kind of just
say like hell yeah after reading the
white paper and just like wanting to get
my hands dirty and play around with the
protocol is that at its core it's these
economic incentives that are used to
align uh the users and the good actors
to to keep propagating the network and
so you have Rune as an economic it's an
economic security model that's cures
thorchain um you have these wallets that
are integrating support for thorchain
Maya chain flip because they do get fees
so now there's a way for them to get
revenue and so this is kind of like very
first principles um act in your best
interest by using our technology and you
will reap the rewards of um the economic
incentives so kind of like zooming out
of thorchain um now there's like the
next layer and so you've mentioned volti
Sig but I want to touch on the rira
alliance because being born out of this
is the app layer and so I've done a
little bit of digging around but I
haven't like been able to grock enough
to Eli 5 what the vision for the app ler
is so through the rira alliance like
what is the thorchain app player going
to become and what are kind of like the
first I guess daps or or use cases you
envision for Thor Chain's app player
yeah so thorchain is has never had an
app layer um it's an app layer allows a
bunch of def5 protocols to be built on
top and we didn't want it to be just
just random apps doing random things and
we had to ensure that the Bas lay was
stable and works right that's how
Fortune makes its money from its Bas
layer and now that we achieved stability
and we're we're hard paring up to the
required versions to deliver an app
layer we have two options one is we can
just roll out the features let anyone
deploy any m c on D um or we could do it
in a coordinated fashion ensuring that
the protocol is uh is not built in a in
a parasitic way and there's no like
weird incentive Loops so and then kajura
happened and kajura um effectively um
like had liquidity issues and was in a
deleveraging spiral so we I stepped in
me personally to back stop them and and
in return them to migrate to th chain
right so that's happening right now um
and they will help us deliver the main
defi apps across the system um I want to
I just want to interject and ask you why
were you so bullish on kujira then and
what the team was building because well
the team for the three years has been
building apps on an app so and that's
what allj was so it's a perfect marriage
like uh yeah they've been running a Bas
protocol but that Bas was just a vanilla
Cosmos train so now we get to import all
the technology and and the their
understanding how to build it thought up
will be different in the sense that its
apps will be able to Plum into its Bas
layer cuz its Baseline has functionality
um like some some pretty epic I mean
it's got base liquidity and stuff like
that so we have to build it in in a
certain way that exposes that liquidity
um to the Apple own and ensure that the
fees are fees are share between Bas and
up um and then and then roll it all out
so it's going to it's probably going to
take 12 months to be honest to to to
migrate build build something that works
um but the the end goal is is is going
to be pretty epic it you'll have this
kind of sex- like experience since
exchange experience where with this in a
single wallet you'll be able to onboard
and access all these defi verticals
which P Bice lie well we we have to come
up with another way to to refer to
custodial exchanges because I think
using it like sex like lir you have to
explain it what it is every time you say
it um but this was this was a point of
curiosity that arose so uh there's going
to be a new token that replaces the old
kajira token it's going to be the rookie
token which allows stakers to kind of
capture Revenue that's generated from
these applications that are running on
top of rira's new app player and I'm
wondering if there's any kind of
internal competition with the new rui
token rugy token excuse me and the Rune
token sorry yeah um no it's designed in
a way that they they um they work well
together so the roui token is just a fee
switch uh real yield token we Vault you
have stake it you you earn uscc done and
all the Rie apps send Revenue to the
base layer so that the Thor noes like so
we we ensure a fat protocol thesis so we
don't want the applications to get too
topheavy on door chain and create weird
incentives um so we want to make sure
that the Bas is always paid right it
gets paid through gas fees but also
should get paid through liquidity fees
uh and that should be enforced and then
we keep everyone happy um we see how we
go but um super excited get building
with the team and um shoot this yeah
hell yeah man uh we're kind of nearing
the end of our time so we'll we we'll
zoom out after I'm going to go get a
coffee with my wife and daughter so as I
watch the talk so I can't wait to get
out of here can see them h no worries um
so then yeah just kind of like zooming
out what's the vision for for how voltis
will kind of play out in in these
ecosystems are we looking at a world
where I no longer have to use my ledger
anymore I can just
use see um St on um so B SE is it's
going to should replace your Hardware
wallet your Chrome extension and your
single s wallet it should replace all
your wallets it will be the wallet of
everything because it's so powerful like
it is safer than a hardware wallet it is
more useful than a a mobile wallet and
has like transaction policies and alerts
uh because it's the the I mean because
the trate there's no trate key never
exists he use multiparty computation the
same way the thought chain works and it
gets two of your devices together to
coign transactions right and and it's
you log into your your Gmail or your B
account with two Factor you better log
into your Chrome extension or your your
laptop with two Factor not loging but to
send transactions You' be able to see
all the funds but the second you want to
send transactions out you have to like
coign it with your iPhone or Apple watch
oric cing sensal whatever so it it
there's no private Keys you can't get
fished um or you can say you can still
send any M on if they can convince you
but there's like election barriers of um
but the convenient it's very easy to
like if you're out with your phone you
don't want all your money to be on your
phone so if you lose your phone or it
gets broken into like you losing money
you kind of do want this two factor and
we're building it in such a way that
other wallets can integrate us right so
once again collaborative approach rather
than trying to like monopolize
everything um we build it in a way so
like all the existing wallets can import
vol6 technology and give their users
these vaults which much much safer so
100% once fault to seek is are fully
distributed download it use it um it
it's a finally way for you to get rid of
your Hollow wats and is this going to
protect like my friend who I just talked
into getting ethereum and using metam
Mas for the first time is this going to
protect them from signing a malicious
link and like getting their whole wallet
drain from just trying to collect a
quote unquote free air drop that was a
fishing scam right so the one of the
main problems is on like menam mask or
Hydro wallet is the screen and compute
available is Tiny right so it can't do
address checking and fish checking and
and like especially your Ledger you're
just like blind signing stuff right
whereas cosigning like you create a
transaction on your on your MacBook or
whatever and it will pop up on your
iPhone with the full the full um the
full transaction right and this is like
a sixin screen right so you better
literally read everything you can go to
address checks and go oh yeah you're
about to like lose your money or
whatever and it's just a better user
experience it gives you more information
before you sign it right so um like yeah
it just it just w't compete and it's
uses your familiar Hardware there's no
private Keys it's all multiactor um it's
much more rich and familiar to you
you're not carrying on Hardware wallets
but the best thing about there's no
there's no private keys anywhere see if
you download the milous PDF there's
there's nothing to steal cool so my
final question then is you mentioned at
the beginning of the conversation that
thorchain is 50% there what does in the
next like one two 5 years what does Thor
chain being 100% there for you what does
that look like it's the journey not the
destination uh no
100 90% then um the the protocol should
be like it should be everywhere
pervasive it should be stable uh it
should be profitable sustainable um it
should be alive right it should be
working and then I mean there's a lot of
change with the up layer and and more
chains and features that were're rolling
out but ideally the Bas layer all the
Bas layer should be doing is just
maintenance and more ways to integrate
chains right now that we're putting a
lot of complexity into the Bas layer um
so we we can relax all that for sure
awesome JD if someone listened to this
and they want to become a new thorchain
user they want to become a new developer
in the ecosystem anything beyond that or
in between what's the best way they
could reach out to you or to the broader
thorchain Dev Community just follow me
on Twitter JB Thor I it's a stream of
Consciousness but actually my Twitter is
an amazing recruit amazing way to reach
out to very smart people in the world
very quickly like you'll be surprised
how quickly I can I can like tweet and
bom reach anyone in the world very
quickly um so I keep my Twitter high
engag at Max engag at Max output and
like level 11 just to like attract
people's attention right if you're just
a boring person on Twitter you're not
getting anyone's attention so just be
aware my Twitter is pretty crazy
sometimes but it works and I can reach
out to and get stuff done so quickly so
that's why I run that Twitter yeah I can
attest to it your your Twitter account
is is very fun to follow you're you're
constantly tweeting throughout the day
so uh yeah anyone listening to this go
give it a follow and and also JP will
respond to you you slap me with that
follow back almost immediately which was
uh very much humbling and appreciated so
thank you so much for taking the time to
chat with us here I love Thor chain have
loved it for years got introduced by
Eric forhe and the shape shift boys um
and have been hooked since day one um so
yeah keep on building what you're
building and this was truly just like a
fun conversation to prepare for and to
have so I appreciate your time JP
awesome thanks cheers